Now, there are some kinds of advanced
questions that don't tend to be answered
in modern commercial systems, but
are part of modern research systems, and
let's turn to those now.
Imagine the following harder question.
What is water spinach?
And the answer we'd like to give is
really a full paragraph that talks about
water spinach and its history and
names form different languages and so on.
So we're not be able to
build that kind of question,
not by just looking it up on the web but
by merging together.
Possible snippets we might
get from different sources or
we might get hard medical questions
like in children with an acute illness,
what's the efficacy of
a particular medicine?
And an answer there might be, again,
a summary of things we might see
from a particular PubMed paper.
We might want to read a sentence and
decide, read a document and extract
sentences, and we can say where they
came from and how much we believe them.
These are the kind of harder things that
are important in the research literature
but haven't yet
made it into modern commercial systems.
And for answering these harder questions,
we often use an approach that's called
query focused summarization and
query focused summarization means that
we're applying a natural language
summarization algorithm, we're
going to summarize multiple documents.
Pull information from multiple documents,
but it's query focused.
It's not just a summary of everything
that's in those documents.
It's the parts that are relevant for
a query, and there are two kinds of
algorithm for query-focused summarization.
One of them, what we might call
the bottom-up snippet method,
we find a set of relevant documents,
extract information from them,
bottom-up using tf-idf,
deciding how many sentences
are relevant by their tf-idf score,
other kinds of scores.
And then, we combine and
modify the sentences into an answer.
And what I'm going to talk about today,
is a second method, which we might think
of as an information extraction method.
And here, we build specific answers that
work for different question types, so
we might have definition questions,
or biography questions or
certain medical questions.
And for each of those,
we might decide what
constitutes a good definition question or
a good biography question or
a good medical question and then we're
going to build specific answers for those.
So for example,
we know that a good biography
contains a person's birth and death.
Dates, it contains how famous they are.
What they're famous for,
their education, their nationality and
these kind of things.
Where as a good definition contains
what's often called a genus or hypernym.
So what is a Hajj?
It's a type of ritual.
And a good medical answer contains
the problem that the medicine is design to
solve the intervention, what is this
drug or intervention we're going to use.
And then, the outcome, the result of
the study describing this problem.
So for these three kinds of answers,
we might know that we need to extract for
definition question we gotta
build a genus detector and
a species extractor, subtype extractor.
Whereas, for a biography question,
we need to build a date extractor and
a nationality extractor.
Well, for a drug efficacy question, we
have to extract the population of a study
was run on, or what the problem or
intervention are and so on.
And I've given you examples here of the
kind of sentences we need to extract for
these kind of answers.
So here's a sample architecture for
complex question answering system
from Blair- Goldensohn et al.
Here, you might have a question like,
what is the Hajj?
And we might specify that we'd
like to search 20 documents and
extract an answer of about 8 sentences.
So we'll pull do document retrieval,
pull lots of relevant documents.
And now we're going to build classifiers,
whose job is to pull out
Genus-Species Sentences.
So the Hajj is pilgrimage, the Hajj
is a milestone, the Hajj is a pillar,
and so on.
And classify that pulls out other
non-kinds of definition sentences.
And we're going to cluster these,
and order these,
and produce as the response answer
of about eight sentences that
summarizes a good
response to the question.
So advanced question answering
algorithms used in the laboratory
either use information extraction methods,
or use bottom-up clustering methods to
combine information from lots of documents
to create a set of sentences
that answer a question.
But more commonly, commercial systems
are based on factoid answers.
So either using knowledge bases or
more often using information retrieval
techniques to find sentences that contain
an answer to the question extracting and
ranking the answer and
then presenting it to the user.